You sit down to study and suddenly
everything else seems more interesting.
Maybe I should check my phone first,
just one video, or maybe I need a snack.
Do I even need this degree, or should I
just move to the mountains and start a
farm? Sound familiar? You're not alone.
Most students study the wrong way,
spending hours rereading notes, but
barely remembering anything. But what if
I gave you tips so that you could study
faster? Remember more and still have
time to watch your favorite show? Skip
these tips and you'll stay stuck in that
endless loop of cramming only to get
disappointing grades. So stick around
because trust me, the final tip is the
one that separates the top students from
everyone else. Tip one, trick your brain
into studying. Your brain is lazy. If
you give yourself 3 hours to study,
it'll take 3 hours. Mostly filled with
distractions. This is called Parkinson's
law. Work expands to fill the time you
allow for it. So, here's the fix.
Instead of saying, "I have to study for
hours," tell yourself, "I'll just do 20
minutes." Your brain stops resisting
because 20 minutes feels easy. And once
you start, you'll probably keep going.
Tip two, learn like a genius. Einstein
once said, "If you can't explain it
simply, you don't understand it well
enough." So, if you really want to learn
fast, try teaching it. Here's how.
First, pretend you're explaining a topic
to a 5-year-old. No fancy words. Keep it
simple. Then, notice where you get
stuck. That's what you need to relearn.
Finally, simplify it even more. When you
do this, you're not just memorizing,
you're understanding. Tip three, stop
rereading, start testing. Want to
remember things twice as fast? This
method is scientifically proven to burn
information into your brain. Stop
passively rereading your notes. Instead,
use active recall. Close your book and
try to recall key points from memory.
Instead of copying notes, write them
down without looking. You could also use
flashcards, but test yourself instead of
just reading them. Tip four, the timer
trick for instant focus. Ever notice how
you suddenly become super focused right
before a deadline? That's because
urgency creates focus. And you can use
this to your advantage. Here's how. Set
a 30 minute timer. Study like it's an
emergency. Take a five minute break.
Move around, stretch, or scroll your
phone. Guilt-free. Repeat. Why does this
work? Short study sessions prevent
burnout. Also, your brain stays focused
because it knows a break is coming. At
the same time, you avoid fake studying.
Just staring at notes without actually
learning. Tip five, work smarter, not
harder. Stop wasting time. Not
everything you study is equally
important. Some things matter way more
than others. That's why you need the
8020 rule. 80% of your results come from
just 20% of what you study. So stop
focusing too much on the tiny details.
Instead, ask yourself, what will
actually be on the test? Check past
exams or ask your teacher. What don't I
understand yet? If you already know
something, move on. A hack from an A+
student. Start with a practice test
before you even study. That way you
instantly see which topics come up the
most. And that's where you should focus
80% of your time. And now the final tip
that no one talks about. Tip six, the
real shortcut to better learning. You
can use every single study hack
invented, but if your brain can't
process the information properly, it'll
disappear just as fast as it came. And
that's the huge mistake most students
make. They focus only on what they
study, but not on how their brain
processes it. The thing is, your brain
doesn't store information while you're
studying. It locks it in while you
sleep. So, what does this mean? Pulling
all nighters before a test, bad idea.
You'll retain way less. Getting 7 to 8
hours of sleep, that's when your brain
actually files everything away for
long-term memory. But sleep isn't the
only way your brain processes
information. Exercise plays a huge role,
too. Even a short walk can give your
memory a serious boost. Once you get all
of this right, you won't just learn
faster, you'll actually remember it all.
Here's your six-step study cheat sheet
for studying smarter. Use timers to stay
focused. Teach it to someone or pretend
to test yourself instead of rereading.
Set short study sprints. Use the 8020
rule. Focus on what actually matters.
Sleep plus exercise equals free brain
upgrades.